index.md, before:

---
title: Home
---

## About

Welcome to the Colin Ophus Lab (COLAB) website! Our group performs research in computational imaging, electron microscopy, data analysis, and materials science.


## Current Positions

We are currently recruiting enthusiastic PhD students, postdocs and interns! If you are interested, please [contact Colin](mailto:cophus@stanford.edu)!  We are also excited to collaborate with any interested researchers.



## IDEA Statement

Everyone deserves to work a safe, inclusive and equitable environment. As educators and researchers, we are committed to fostering such an atmosphere in academia. We actively mentor students from underrepresented groups, implement fair hiring practices, and promote global scientific collaboration. We strive to create inclusive spaces, prevent discrimination, hold ourselves and others accountable, and continuously educate ourselves on equity issues. By embracing diverse perspectives and backgrounds, we can advance scientific progress and build a more equitable academic community that reflects and serves our diverse society.

Commit message:

Updates to add person card and news

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
---

## About

Welcome to the Colin Ophus Lab (COLAB) website! Our group performs research in computational imaging, electron microscopy, data analysis, and materials science.

## Current Positions

We are currently recruiting enthusiastic PhD students, postdocs and interns! If you are interested, please [contact Colin](mailto:cophus@stanford.edu)! We are also excited to collaborate with any interested researchers.

## IDEA Statement

Everyone deserves to work a safe, inclusive and equitable environment. As educators and researchers, we are committed to fostering such an atmosphere in academia. We actively mentor students from underrepresented groups, implement fair hiring practices, and promote global scientific collaboration. We strive to create inclusive spaces, prevent discrimination, hold ourselves and others accountable, and continuously educate ourselves on equity issues. By embracing diverse perspectives and backgrounds, we can advance scientific progress and build a more equitable academic community that reflects and serves our diverse society.

::::{template:list} news.yml
:limit: 3
:last: [More News](/news) ...
:path: news
[{{title}}{% if date %} - [{{date}}]{% endif %}]({{url}})
::::
