research.md, before:

---
title: Research
---

## 4DSTEM

### Experiments

+++ {"class": "col-"}

:::{figure} ./videos/research_4DSTEM.mp4
:class: md:float-right ml-4
Comparing conventional ADF-STEM and 4DSTEM.
:::

Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) has become an essential tool for materials science research, where it has been applied to atomic-scale imaging, diffraction, spectroscopy, and 3D tomography of many materials. In conventional STEM imaging, we scan a converged electron probe in a 2D grid over the sample, recording 1-5 intensity values from detectors which count the electrons scattered over a large angular range. Complex electron diffraction patterns which encode a lot of atomic-scale sample information are therefore reduced to only a few measurement values in conventional STEM imaging.

However, we now have direct electron detectors which can operate at speeds up to 120,000 frames / second. These detectors allow us to record a full 2D image of the diffracted electron beam over a 2D grid of probe positions, generated a 4D dataset. We therefore coined the term four-dimensional scanning transmission electron microscopy (4DSTEM) to describe this family of experiments.

Our group has developed many kinds of 4DSTEM experiments, including nanobeam orientation and phase mapping, inversion of multiple scattering with physics and machine learning approaches, ptychographic imaging, ptychographic atomic electron tomography, and many others.

- [(2019) Review on 4DSTEM](doi.org/10.1017/S1431927619000497)
- [(2021) 4DSTEM of beam-sensitive Materials](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.1c00073)
- [(2023) Review on STEM in materials science](doi.org/10.1146/annurev-matsci-080921-092646)

### Analysis with py4DSTEM

```{image} /images/research/py4DSTEM_logo_54_export.png
:alt: py4DSTEM
:class: md:float-right ml-4
:width: 300px
:align: right
```

4DSTEM experiments produce prodigious amounts of data - potentially millions of diffraction pattern images, each with tens of thousands of pixels. We have developed robust and efficient algorithms to analyze these huge 4DSTEM datasets, primarily implemented into open-source py4DSTEM python package developed by our group for analysis of 4DSTEM data. py4DSTEM provides researchers with a powerful, flexible, and user-friendly toolkit for processing and interpreting large-scale 4DSTEM data. The code supports a wide range of functionalities, including

#### nanobeam crystalline diffraction data
- diffraction pattern indexing for orientation and phase mapping
- strain mapping
- structure classification
- ML inversion of multiple scattering

#### nanobeam amorphous diffraction data
- pair distribution function (PDF) mapping
- fluctuation electron microscopy (FEM)
- strain mapping

#### phase contrast STEM
- center of mass-differential phase contrast (CoM-DPC)
- parallax or tilt-corrected bright field imaging
- ptychography
- joint ptychography-tomography


### Custom apertures

Crystalline diffraction patterns






## Atomic Electron Tomography

### 4DSTEM Ptychography

:::{figure} ./images/research/figure_AET_ZrTe_DWCNT.jpg
:align: center
:width: 500px
ZrTe nanowire encapsulated in double-walled carbon nanotube solved with, from @doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-43634-z.
:::

Our group pioneered the development of ptychographic atomic electron tomography, where we combined ptychography imaging with AET. This approach significantly enhances the precision and sensitivity of atomic structure determination, enabling the visualization of complex nanostructures, including light elements. PAET has the potential to significantly expand the range of nanostructures that can be resolved in 3D at atomic resolution, and provide deeper insights into the atomic-scale underpinnings of material properties

- [(2015) 3D positions of individual atoms in materials revealed by electron tomography](https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat4426)
- [(2017) Deciphering chemical order/disorder and material properties at the single-atom level](dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature21042)
- [(2019) Observing crystal nucleation in four dimensions using AET](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1317-x)
- [(2023) Solving complex nanostructures with PAET](doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-43634-z)
- [(2024) Atomic-scale identification of active sites of oxygen reduction nanocatalysts](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-024-01175-8)





### ADF-STEM

Atomic electron tomography (AET) reconstructs the three-dimensional structures of materials at atomic resolution. By recording high-resolution STEM images from many projection directions and then using tomographic reconstruction algorithms, we can use AET to map the 3D positions and species of atoms within complex nanostructures. This method is invaluable for studying defects, interfaces, and other structural intricacies in materials that influence their properties. AET has transformative applications in materials science, catalysis, and nanotechnology, offering unprecedented insights into the atomic-scale architecture of advanced materials.



### HRTEM Tomography



<!-- ## Materials Science Characterization -->

## Data Analysis for Materials Characterization Science

## Atomic Resolution Imaging

## Scanning Probe Drift Correction

## ML Inversion of Multiple Scattering

## ML Characterization of Disordered Materials

## Quantum Mechanical Scattering Simulations

### The PRISM Algorithm

### The Prismatic Code

### py4DSTEM Diffraction Simulations

Commit message:

more content, trying images in people all on right side

research.md, after:

---
title: Research
---

## 4DSTEM

### Experiments

+++ {"class": "col-"}

:::{figure} ./videos/research_4DSTEM.mp4
:class: md:float-right ml-4
Comparing conventional ADF-STEM and 4DSTEM.
:::

Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) has become an essential tool for materials science research, where it has been applied to atomic-scale imaging, diffraction, spectroscopy, and 3D tomography of many materials. In conventional STEM imaging, we scan a converged electron probe in a 2D grid over the sample, recording 1-5 intensity values from detectors which count the electrons scattered over a large angular range. Complex electron diffraction patterns which encode a lot of atomic-scale sample information are therefore reduced to only a few measurement values in conventional STEM imaging.

However, we now have direct electron detectors which can operate at speeds up to 120,000 frames / second. These detectors allow us to record a full 2D image of the diffracted electron beam over a 2D grid of probe positions, generated a 4D dataset. We therefore coined the term four-dimensional scanning transmission electron microscopy (4DSTEM) to describe this family of experiments.

Our group has developed many kinds of 4DSTEM experiments, including nanobeam orientation and phase mapping, inversion of multiple scattering with physics and machine learning approaches, ptychographic imaging, ptychographic atomic electron tomography, and many others.

- [(2019) Review on 4DSTEM](doi.org/10.1017/S1431927619000497)
- [(2021) 4DSTEM of beam-sensitive Materials](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.1c00073)
- [(2023) Review on STEM in materials science](doi.org/10.1146/annurev-matsci-080921-092646)

### Analysis with py4DSTEM

```{image} /images/research/py4DSTEM_logo_54_export.png
:alt: py4DSTEM
:class: md:float-right ml-4
:width: 300px
:align: right
```

4DSTEM experiments produce prodigious amounts of data - potentially millions of diffraction pattern images, each with tens of thousands of pixels. We have developed robust and efficient algorithms to analyze these huge 4DSTEM datasets, primarily implemented into open-source py4DSTEM python package developed by our group for analysis of 4DSTEM data. py4DSTEM provides researchers with a powerful, flexible, and user-friendly toolkit for processing and interpreting large-scale 4DSTEM data. The code supports a wide range of functionalities, including:

#### nanobeam crystalline diffraction data
- diffraction pattern indexing for orientation and phase mapping
- strain mapping
- structure classification
<!-- - ML inversion of multiple scattering -->

#### nanobeam amorphous diffraction data
- pair distribution function (PDF) mapping
- fluctuation electron microscopy (FEM)
- strain mapping

#### phase contrast STEM
- center of mass-differential phase contrast (CoM-DPC)
- parallax or tilt-corrected bright field imaging
- ptychography
- joint ptychography-tomography


### ML Inversion of Multiple Scattering

On of the most powerful aspects of electron microscopy is that electrons interact so strongly with matter - approximately ZZZ times more strongly than photons!  However, this strong interaction means that we need to make our samples extremely thin, thousands of times thinner than the diameter of a human hair. Ideally, we make samples so thin that most electrons *scatter* only a single time when passing through the material; however many samples are either too thick or contain heavy elements, and thus scatter the electron beam multiple times. This multiple scattering creates complex nonlinear contrast in our measured diffraction patterns, which cannot be analyzed with conventional analysis methods.

Our group has devised a way to overcome the limitations of multiple scattering in crystalline samples - we use deep learning methods to predict the single-scattering signal from diffraction patterns which contain strong multiple scattering. This allows us to analyze much thicker samples with electron microscopy, and to measure material structure and properties much more accurately.

[Disentangling multiple scattering with deep learning: application to strain mapping from electron diffraction patterns](@doi.org/10.1038/s41524-022-00939-9)

### ML Characterization of Disordered Materials

In the previous section, we saw how to invert multiple scattering signals from crystalline materials. But what about non-crystalline materials? Many important technological materials are highly disordered, including many functional oxides, silicate glasses, liquid or amorphous electrolytes, soft matter such as polymers, and many others. We are currently working to generalize our inversion methods to work on all materials, from fully disordered random liquids to highly ordered crystalline materials.


### Custom apertures

As we saw above, diffraction patterns from crystalline materials which contain multiple scattering are difficult to analyze. We have devised another 4DSTEM method to extract signals such as orientation or deformation strain - we insert patterned membranes into the probe-forming apertures. By stamping "bullseye" patterns into each diffracted probe, we allow our analysis software to extract material properties with much higher accuracy.

[Patterned probes for high precision 4D-STEM bragg measurements](@doi.org/10.1016/j.ultramic.2019.112890)



## Atomic Electron Tomography

### 4DSTEM Ptychography

:::{figure} ./images/research/figure_AET_ZrTe_DWCNT.jpg
:align: center
:width: 500px
ZrTe nanowire encapsulated in double-walled carbon nanotube solved with, from @doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-43634-z.
:::

Our group pioneered the development of ptychographic atomic electron tomography, where we combined ptychography imaging with AET. This approach significantly enhances the precision and sensitivity of atomic structure determination, enabling the visualization of complex nanostructures, including light elements. PAET has the potential to significantly expand the range of nanostructures that can be resolved in 3D at atomic resolution, and provide deeper insights into the atomic-scale underpinnings of material properties

- [(2015) 3D positions of individual atoms in materials revealed by electron tomography](https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat4426)
- [(2017) Deciphering chemical order/disorder and material properties at the single-atom level](dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature21042)
- [(2019) Observing crystal nucleation in four dimensions using AET](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1317-x)
- [(2023) Solving complex nanostructures with PAET](doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-43634-z)
- [(2024) Atomic-scale identification of active sites of oxygen reduction nanocatalysts](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-024-01175-8)


### ADF-STEM

Atomic electron tomography (AET) reconstructs the three-dimensional structures of materials at atomic resolution. By recording atomic-resolution images from many projection directions and then using tomographic reconstruction algorithms, we can use AET to map the 3D positions and species of atoms within complex nanostructures. This method is invaluable for studying defects, interfaces, and other structural intricacies in materials that influence their properties. AET has transformative applications in materials science, catalysis, and nanotechnology, offering unprecedented insights into the atomic-scale architecture of advanced materials. ADF STEM is particularly useful for AET studies, as it provides approximately linear contrast over a wide range of sample thicknesses, and produces contrast which depends on the atomic species.



### HRTEM Tomography

As powerful as ADF-STEM is for AET studies, it has some critical drawbacks: ADF produces little or no contrast for light elements including important species such as C, O, Li and H, and requires a large electron beam dose which may damage beam-sensitive samples. Plane wave HRTEM imaging offers an alternative to STEM. Phase contrast HRTEM is very dose-efficient, and produces contrast for all atomic species. This is why HRTEM is the method of choice for imaging biological samples at high resolution. The problem with HRTEM is that it produces complex non-linear contrast, especially for thicker or strongly-scattering samples. In order to use it for AET, we have developed inverse multislice algorithms in collaboration with Laura Waller at UC Berkeley. We have collaborated with Michael Whittaker at Berkeley Lab to apply this method to solve the 3D structure of clay layers frozen in vitreous ice, even managing to find asymmetric ion concentrations which depend on the curvature of these sheets.




<!-- ## Materials Science Characterization -->

## Data Analysis for Materials Characterization Science

## Atomic Resolution Imaging

## Scanning Probe Drift Correction


## Quantum Mechanical Scattering Simulations

### The PRISM Algorithm

### The Prismatic Code

### py4DSTEM Diffraction Simulations
