resource-students.md, before:

---
title: Resources
---

:::{attention}
This page is currently a work in progress
:::

## Prospective students

Information for students interested in joining COLab.

### Rotation Policy

We're still deciding on the final rotation policy.

### Current Projects

Ask Colin for the link!

## Resources for new students in COLab

If you are starting out in material science, here are:

- [Helpful resources collected by Enze Chen](https://enze-chen.github.io/resources/)

### How to add or edit your bio on the website

To add or edit your bio on the [People](people.md) page, upload a 400x400px JPEG headshot and a short bio. Follow the instructions in the README [here](https://github.com/ophusgroup/landing) for step-by-step guidance.

### Mallard compute cluster

Information for using our group computational resources [can be found here.](resource-mallard.md)

### Interactive and educational resources

We are also working to develop a SOP for creating interactive papers, [which can be found here.](resource-interactive.md)

<!-- ## Offices

COLab student offices are in Durand 116. Colin's office is in Durand 123.
 -->

Commit message:

link to open-source project guideline

resource-students.md, after:

---
title: Resources
---

:::{attention}
This page is currently a work in progress
:::

## Prospective students

Information for students interested in joining COLab.

### Rotation Policy

We're still deciding on the final rotation policy.

### Current Projects

Ask Colin for the link!

## Resources for new students in COLab

If you are starting out in material science, here are:

- [Helpful resources collected by Enze Chen](https://enze-chen.github.io/resources/)

### How to contribute to group open-source projects

Please refer to the GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/ophusgroup/dev).

### How to add or edit your bio on the website

To add or edit your bio on the [People](people.md) page, upload a 400x400px JPEG headshot and a short bio. Follow the instructions in the README [here](https://github.com/ophusgroup/landing) for step-by-step guidance.

### Mallard compute cluster

Information for using our group computational resources [can be found here.](resource-mallard.md)

### Interactive and educational resources

We are also working to develop a SOP for creating interactive papers, [which can be found here.](resource-interactive.md)

<!-- ## Offices

COLab student offices are in Durand 116. Colin's office is in Durand 123.
 -->
